
#Task 3 : Design a Data Collection tool to record Typhoid fever symptom Data.

There are two ways in which we can collect data:
  1(a) The first one is through online mode : In online mode "Google forms" are the best and the easiest way to collect data on large scale with less effort, 
       I have created a google form with some questionare and will add new questions after discussing it with mentors and community.
       I have designed google form in such a way in which the collected data can be stored in structural rows and columns in a spreedsheet format.
       And at last I have created questions which accepts both numercial and categorical data as well.
       
       but this method have a major drawback.
       
   Drawbacks of first data collection method(online mode): 
    (a) The major disadvantage of this method is that it only work when there is a continous availability of internet 
        but most of the rural areas dont have any continous avalibility of internet or continous electricity supply
        
        As a solution of this problem I have introduce several ways to collect data through offline mode in rural areas where this is no internet and electricity.
    
   1(b) the second tool to collect data is through offline mode:specifically for the doctors and physicians working in rural areas. 
        
        the top 4 tools are as follows:
        
        1)Observation: Observation is the fundamental method used in village/rural studies. 
          It serves as a convenient blanket to cancel both ethical and methodological shortcomings in the actual research process.
        
        2)Structured Schedule or Questionnaire:Illiteracy is a common phenomenon in rural/villages areas. 
          Hence, this method is not widely used. For factual data, however, the researcher administers the structured schedule. 
          In this method, a set of questions is framed and persons with whom the information is to be collected are given the questionnaire. 
          The answers in the questionnaire are generally in the form of ‘yes’ or ‘no.’
          
        3)Rural Survey:Surveys conducted for research purpose are holistic in nature. 
          The totality of rural life in all its dimensions is presented through the tool of social survey. 
          The government along with various universities has conducted many surveys to monitor changes in 
          the structure and functioning of village economy due to external stimulus.
          
        4)rural area Monographs:These monographs present an overall picture of the rural life. In these monographs, a casual observation of the rural life is made. 
          In this type, the fieldwork is non-intensive as here, researcher goes to the village concerned 
          and meets village heads or knowledgeable people there and collects the data.
          
       
